V I R A L V F X VA U LT · R E C R E AT I O N G U I D E

Make an Object Appear
📘 Beginner

🎬 6 video lessons

📱 Shot on phone

✂️ CapCut

What you'll make
Recreate the Make an Object Appear effect entirely on your phone. Film a couple of simple shots, then
build the illusion in CapCut using the steps below.

The finished effect (still from the demo)

🎥 Part 1 — Filming

1

Welcome to your first visual effect.

2

Wanna start you off with something simple but effective.

3

We're gonna make an object appear just by snapping our fingers.

4

For this we're gonna need two shots.

5

The first shot we're gonna snap our fingers, pick up the cup and take a drink and then the second
shot we're gonna get with the cup removed from the scene that will create our clean plate.

6

Let's go ahead and do our focus lock and hit record.

7

Shot one then our second shot, we just want our clean plate no cup in the scene.

8

One thing to know is that when you have natural lighting coming into the window, this can be
problematic if we have the sun shifting or clouds moving during the day and you wanna make sure
to get your shots just back to back.

9

Basically not giving the sun enough time to shift and change the lighting in the scene.

✂️ Part 2 — Editing in CapCut
1

Once we have our footage imported I'm gonna trim it down to just the section that I need.

2

Tap split, delete everything on the left side, pick up the cup, drink, set it down.

3

I'll split it again and then I'll come to a section where the cup is not on the counter.

4

Split and delete that middle section.

5

We're gonna use this part as our patch to cover up the cup, so I'll go ahead and split it here and
delete everything on the right side so I have my two clips of my action clip and my clean plate of
the countertop.

6

Select the second part of the shot.

7

Have overlay to drop it down resume out a little bit, long press and I'm gonna pull it all the way
over to the left.

8

I'll use my mask tool to just select the section that's gonna cover the cup over here.

9

Rotate it, so you can see the mask is covering the cup.

10

We don't want it to overlap our body at all and I'll go ahead and boost the feather a little bit to see
how much the feather is adjusting.

11

I like to overlap it straight over the object and then you can adjust the feather and you can see
how much effect it's actually having.

12

If I want just a little bit of feather I can see how much feather there is over the cup that blend and
then I can move it into place where I want it.

13

Then we just wanna go to the point where we snap our fingers and trim this clip, down to that
point.

14

Deselect everything by tapping in the black section and hit play Boom.

15

So once we have our footage imported up here drag it down on the timeline so both of our shots
are in this one clip.

16

I'm just gonna trim off the front and back end that I don't need.

17

Select and split.

18

Delete the front part that I don't need.

19

Snap and then after after this first shot when I pick up the glass I'm gonna split it here.

20

This will be shot too and just keep a section where this area right here is open and there's no cup.

21

We're gonna use that to basically patch that area.

22

What I wanna do now I have clip 1, clip 2 drag this on top to be able to see what's going on we're
gonna use the mask tool so up here in video mask and I can use a rectangle mask and you can
see what's happening is this mask is covering our cup.

23

I'll adjust the feather a little bit just to smooth those edges.

24

I'll put that at .

25

So what we wanna do is let it play and right when we snap our fingers we're gonna trim off the
edge of this clip the end of it.

26

Go ahead and mute these.

27

You zoom in here.

28

What's gonna happen is this is this patch on the table is gonna come to an end right when we
snap our fingers and it's gonna reveal the cup.

29

Here we go.

30

So here's a final adjustment that I made as you can see the clip is pretty yellow.

31

This happens when you're using warm lights from inside the house so a quick way to fix that, is
select the clip come up to adjustment appear in the right corner, under basic cause what's
happening is the white balance is off.

32

If you shift it this way it goes to warm if you shift it this way it goes to cool.

33

What we wanna do is shift it to where it's supposed to be.

34

Which is where white things are actually white so I'm looking at the cabinet and my shirt so I can
pull that down but I don't want the walls to go too blue.

35

I'll find a middle ground here and then I can come under HSL which is huge saturation and
luminance and I'm going to pick the orange color cause there's still some orange in here.

36

You can see this, still yellow orange and I can just pull down the saturation of just that color.

37

I like to pull it way down see what it's doing and then bring it back.

38

Less is more, but if you look at the before and after of that and what we did here it makes a big
difference.

Official visual step-by-step:

🧱 Layers reference

📝 Full narration (reference)
Object Appear - Filming

📱 Object Appear - Edit - Capcut Mobile
🖥️ Object Appear - Edit - Capcut Desktop
Recreation guide generated from the Viral VFX Vault for personal study. Effect: Make an Object Appear.

